I don't know what I'm doing right now
but I'm not vegan anymore abundance in
Waffen college I challenged my mom to be
vegan for one week and she loved it and
she stuck with it for six months the
last month of her being vegan she was
like this sucks
like it completely sucks yes it's fun to
try new foods and stuff but I've never
gained more weight in my entire life I
feel bloated all the time and it's just
not working for me and I was like you
know what you tried it totally fine why
don't you eat what you want to eat so
she incorporated chicken and eggs back
into her diet no dairy and she cut out a
lot of the carbs that we were eating
like a lot of the grains and the hope
she cut down on her fruit intake and
there's just a lot of stuff to be cut
down on because when you're high carb
low fat it's so much carbs she cut down
on that and she said she instantly felt
better my dad is also high carb low fat
vegan because of my mom trying the
challenge he tried to challenge too he
is still vegan and he also saw same
thing he's like I've never gained more
weight in my entire life but his stats
are really healthy his cholesterol his
blood pressure all of that is super
healthy so it just doesn't really make
sense I always had that in the back of
my mind like is that helping at me like
whatever but I never really noticed it
and then I was watching Sara's days logs
a few i watch her vlogs like every day
she was explaining anivia why she stops
being vegan and pretty much she said
that she was bloated all the time me she
felt sick a lot me and she just didn't
always have energy me and she didn't
really have less little anymore me and I
didn't really want to admit all that
stuff to myself because I was like
Megan's great and I preach it like I am
so not annoying like I'm not one of
those vegans that are like happy vegan I
shove it down their throat I'm not like
that um but I'm annoying Amazon so like
I I talk about my diet so much because I
love it so much so I kind of felt like
embarrassed to say if it wasn't working
for me anymore
because it worked amazing for me for the
first like nine months or so and then it
just sort of stopped working I think my
body just got used to all the carbs and
instead of shedding it off like it did
it started to the carbs have just sort
of clung to me they sort of stick to me
because I eat so much sugar and so much
grains and breads and all that good
stuff that vegans are supposed to have
that it just it's not doing the same
results for me that it used to anymore
it's just sticking onto me and I feel
like I've just gained so much weight I
know my last part I was like I've never
had more energy all this stuff but it
was I was just sort of embarrassed to
say and honestly on that day I didn't
even think of not being vegan anymore
because I was like this is how I eat the
past three days or so have been kind of
tricky for me because I'm in this
mindset where I'm like well now what do
I eat because I mean I kind of have this
mentality with food that like yes it's
fuel so I don't want to eat crap that I
want to eat what is right for my body so
I do want to eat Whole Foods but I don't
want to eat meat and I also don't eat
dairy so pretty much where that brings
me is that yesterday morning in the
morning before that I ate eggs and they
were really good for me this is a very
clear case of there being a gap a
visible recognizable gap between what I
want to believe and what I have to
believe I do not want to believe that
people like this young woman are dead
weight for vegans are a liability for me
ISM are holding veganism back instead of
propelling it ahead I don't want to
believe that there is an invidious
division between ethical vegans and
health vegans people were just motivated
by a sense of their own health and
well-being to get involved with veganism
as a diet or as a movement I want to
believe that we're all on the same side
and we're all pursuing the same goal
even if we're pursuing that goal for
different reasons or even if people
initially
get involved for different reasons as
you'd say here that the health based
vegans want better term they really fall
into two very different categories there
are people who get involved with it look
they're probably a million categories
but I'm only going to talk about two out
of a million right now okay
two of the categories two types among
many of health-based vegans are those
who you know get bad news in the doctor
where the doctor someone sits down with
them and says look you've got a chronic
heart condition you have advanced
atherosclerosis you have one of a long
list of health problems that could be
improved if you can seriously sit down
discipline yourself adopt a strict vegan
diet you know these symptoms could be
alleviated or reversed your quality of
life improve that's that is one category
totally utterly different from this
young woman and this young woman in her
own terms she describes her own
flirtation with veganism entirely in
terms of a feeling she wanted to feel
great she wanted to lose weight and feel
great but me she had no health problems
Travis Lee has no concern about
cholesterol and she's now taking up
eating chicken eggs which there is
nobody should eat chicken eggs I mean
there's absolutely no basis in health
sciences for anyone to ever eat a
chicken egg sugar eggs are in terms of
the current state of science 2017
chicken eggs are close to being banned
or put on the same list of things like
cigarettes they just absolutely nobody
should eat we're talking about health
let's save your health there's no reason
for chicken eggs to be in the human diet
I mean all ethical considerations aside
I ate eggs and they were really good and
I noticed immediately after I ate eggs
I stopped bloating like I woke I pretty
much have woken up loaded every day for
the past year but today I'm not bloated
at all that long explanation is me
saying I don't know what I'm doing right
now but I'm not vegan anymore so she's
making that decision in
completely impulsive emotional way and
even though who are engaged with
veganism is under the heading of health
I have to say from the sound of it
both her joining the club and her
quitting or exiting they both seemed to
be really impulsive emotional decisions
based on how she feels right it's not
based on the cholesterol or again you
wouldn't be eating chicken eggs at spoke
cholesterol it's not based on something
measurable um blood sugar levels you
know if you have diabetes or some of
this or you know any number of other
measurable health problems it's it's
really based on a subjective feeling
feeling of being tired feeling of not
being full of energy not being happy not
being not being as energetic and abelian
as she imagines you should be on a vegan
diet now look to my knowledge this young
woman is 18 years old it's possible she
didn't update her description and she's
now 19 we're all born ignorant and the
reality of health and hygiene and the
human diet there are a lot of technical
details go into stuff nobody is born
knowing I don't know how many times have
sat down had to explain to a fellow
vegan you cannot eat beans straight out
of the can even if the can says ready to
eat okay he show you with some like
kidney beans a so called baked beans
that are white beans in sugar that makes
them brown in color
you know molasses changes the color to a
brown most of the beans that are
commonly available in the Western world
you need to cook at a high temperature
for a serious amount of time or else you
will indeed get bloating you will get
indigestion of one kind or another and
many many many white Western people
including people at phd's people were
older more mature natee they are really
reluctant to believe that they want to
believe that beans again the types of
beans wheat in the West or just like a
you know
right piece of fruit you can take off a
tree and sink your teeth into and digest
with no problems and they're not beans
are tough and you need to kind of cook
the hell out of them to make them
digestible now I mean why do I raise
this example complaints about bloating
or real the causes for that bloating
will probably be a handful of
misunderstandings about food of a
totally technical totally boring nature
like you know maybe you're taking adzuki
beans and you toss them in boiling water
for only two minutes the same way you
boil pasta but a lot of people do that
they'll take a harder to do ki bean
they'll just cook it till it's soft they
think it's like pasta past that you can
cook fast if it's a rolling boil you can
do pasta for 30 seconds you throw it in
the boiling water or if it's single
serving single person you pull it to the
bone water and already soft and ready to
eat right adzuki beans don't play that
you know with some fava beans any of
those beans you will get horrible
indigestion if you cook them just enough
so there's soft to the teeth you can be
in for really terrible bloating inside
of it there's only one example you know
the reality is that if you're an ethical
vegan you start off with the perception
that you cannot eat meat anymore
you cannot eat dairy or eggs and then
you're going to figure out how to make
the vegan diet work for you and it's not
easy in Saskatchewan it is not easy
depending on where you are in terms of
the climate and the ecology and the food
culture for most of us it is not easy if
you're an 18 year old kid you don't
particularly have a background of these
things you probably didn't have a
grandmother who taught you how to boil
beans it's not easy there's a sense in
which I can sympathize with this
eighteen year old kid who felt listless
lack of energy and bloating and
indigestion and who gave up being vegan
went up to eat but what bike eating
chicken acts there's a sense because
we're all born ignorant and I know what
it's like
okay I know it's like a struggle with
those same factors but the reason why
it's so depressing for me to behold is I
want to believe that these people are on
our side I want to believe that the
health-based vegans the vegans were just
motivated by their health whether for a
heart condition or weight loss or this
much more impressionistic and subjective
sense of being energetic I want to
believe they're on our side and what
YouTube basically forces me to see face
to face through this glowing plastic
screen again and again is that they're
not on our side they eat our diet but
they're not a part of the movement in a
lot of ways they represent the
antithesis of everything we believe in
because veganism is not about your own
happiness it's not about you know buying
a chicken egg from a factory farm
because you think it'll pep you up
that's so surreal that's so unthinkable
to me you know even though I can
recognize all the things she's
struggling with and I mean I can only
imagine what her perspective on the
world must be as an 18 year old and
she's basically trying to make her
living by showing off her face in her
body on YouTube on Instagram and social
that's what she's trying to do with her
career there must be a lot of pressure
on her to look as good as possible and
feel as good a buzz one talk all the
time but how good she looks now great
she feels and when you don't feel that
way you must go into I assume she goes
into a kind of panic she's got a change
and she's gotta find him before I want
to be paleo based but honestly I just
want to eat Whole Foods I don't want to
believe that these people are
politically my enemies but her
philosophy and I think she represents a
whole lot of people who are inside the
movement without being appalled
the part of the movement these days her
perspective is if it makes you feel good
do it and that's why the minute the diet
didn't make her parents feel so good she
told her mom okay go back to eating meat
and her mom did and for her veganism
just is one more fad diet in that
category
she became vegan because she wanted or
expected it to make her feel great and
she did it just as one example of
something she did to make herself feel
great and then as soon as it didn't make
it feel so good anymore she was on to
the next fad diet she think that feeling
she's acting off emotion and and chasing
a mood the mood slip away from you kid
they come and go she was talking openly
in that video but maybe she's going to
try a paleo diet next so 1 fad diet or
another right maybe you should try
cocaine if that's really what it's about
if what you want is just a field raise
lose weight and feel great a combination
of cocaine and intestinal parasites you
work wonders for you kid you wouldn't
believe but look all joking aside I mean
that's the really strange sense in which
these people I want to believe that
we're all part of the same movement and
working for the same future but we're
not people like her just want to feel
great and lose weight and then they pick
up veganism because of how it makes them
feel and they will drop it just as quick
for that same reason and somewhere off
camera out of sight and out of mind
millions of chickens are born and living
their whole lives in a steel cage
waiting to die countless millions of
gallons of water are wasted producing
food that is unhealthy and unnecessary
and putting billions of animals through
nasty brutish short lives of suffering
developing you know the world's most
terrifying antibiotic resistant diseases
destroying our rivers and our air
quality and all the rest of it but yes
fundamentally if your view is factory
farming has got to end and I've got to
do my part no matter how puny or trivial
or tiny no matter how powerless I may
feel I've got to do my part to help
bring about the end of factory farming
if that's your perspective then you have
a moral commitment to that and then you
try to figure out how to make a vegan
diet work for you and instead these
people who are just acting off emotion
they're only in it to get that glow and
if the glow fades or flickers or they're
not boiling their beans right and
they're waking up with indigestion and
poking they're going to chase that high
with the Paleo diet or I guess whatever
is on the cover of Cosmopolitan magazine
this week I don't want to believe it but
I have to I banish Yin